21st Century Technologies Limited, Nigeria’s information technology powerhouse has rejigged her operations to solve some of Nigeria’s toughest challenges, Mr. Wale Ajisebutu, chief executive officer of the company has said. 21st Century Technologies Limited, Nigeria’s information technology powerhouse has rejigged her operations to solve some of Nigeria’s toughest challenges, Mr. Wale Ajisebutu, chief executive officer of the company has said. Nigeria’s socioeconomic challenges includes: power and energy infrastructure, food security and agriculture, wealth creation and employment, mass transportation, land reforms, security, and education. Each of these problems has significant negative impacts on Nigeria’s economy. But 21st Century Technologies Limited has developed sets of solutions to address and shape the present and future of Nigeria and Nigerians. “Central to all these are tailormade solutions to address these challenges; they are indigenous solutions with global standards. We believe that Nigerians deserve the very best. That is why the solutions are local to address local challenges” Ajisebutu said. ICT solutions remain the vital instrument that can be used by Nigerians to enhance service delivery strategy and bring about innovations for the development of the economy. Ajisebutu said “That is why the solutions have been developed by some of the world’s best brains taking into consideration the Nigerian environments, because we cannot copy what work in other climates and expect them to work perfectly here” According to him, 21st Century Technologies is building infrastructure, platform including applications that will revolutionise ICT in Nigeria. 21st Century Technologies has been in the Vanguard of IT development with the introduction of various portals and applications. With two decades of experience, it is fully mobilized and perfectly positioned to build converged, multi-service and efficiently managed communications networks in Africa. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .