First Bank First Bank of Nigeria Limited, is joining the rest of the world in celebrating the 2017 Global Money Week, to engage children and youths on the rudiments of financial literacy. The Bank has embedded in its Corporate Sustainability and Responsibility initiatives like the FutureFirst programme to empower secondary school students between 13 to 17 years with the knowledge of financial literacy and entrepreneurship. The 2017 Global Money Week themed ‘Learn. Earn. Save’ is holding from March 27 – April 2, 2017, with FirstBank targeting to reach about 3,000 students in 30 locations across the geopolitical zones of Nigeria. In alignment with the CBN Financial Literacy Day and as part of the activities to commemorate the Global money week, FirstBank would send delegations to 30 schools across the geopolitical zones of the Nigeria to empower the students with requisite knowledge on Financial Literacy. The Managing Director/CEO, First Bank of Nigeria Limited and Subsidiaries, Dr. Adesola Adeduntan, will lead one of the delegations to teach the students the basics of money and empower them with the financial knowledge they need to be relevant in the global economy. Beyond the financial literacy day event, FirstBank is also collaborating with the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) to commemorate the 2017 Global Money Week and enhance financial literacy among the youths. The NSE events include a half-day seminar, excursions, distribution of a financial literacy brochure and school outreach programmes in six States outside Lagos State. According to Adeduntan, the Bank would continue to support causes that drive financial literacy and financial inclusion in Nigeria. “With our extensive branch network and alternative service channels, we would continue to extend our services to the under-banked, businesses, communities and individuals across the country. Particularly, we would continue to engage our youth with the principles of financial literacy, fully aware that they will be the ones to drive the economy of our nation in the future,” he further enthused. FirstBank has participated in the Financial Literacy Day since 2014, teaching students in different states of the federation including Imaguero Secondary School Benin City, Edo State; Tinuola College Ado Ekiti, Ekiti State and Harmony Secondary School Lokoja, Kogi State. It has succeeded in reaching over 10,000 students with knowledge of financial literacy via this platform.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .