 A scientific view by an expert cancer researcher and advisor to the World Health Organization International Agency for Research on Cancer (WHO/IARC) has classified radio frequency (RF) radiation from any source – such as the signals emitted by cell phones, other wireless and cordless and sensor devices, and wireless networks  The declaration is based on scientific evidence associating RF exposure to cancer development and cancer promotion, according to the report posted by SBWIRE. “The evidence indicating wireless is carcinogenic has increased and can no longer be ignored,” stated Dr. Anthony B. Miller at a July 31, 2017 lecture in Jackson Hole, Wyoming sponsored by the Environmental Health Trust where international experts presented the best available science on cell phone and wireless radiation. In 2011, WHO/IARC classified RF radiation from any source as a “Group 2B possibly carcinogenic to human” agent. Miller believes the evidence published since 2011 fulfills the requirements to re-classify RF radiation as a “Group 1 carcinogenic to humans” agent. Miller explained that the basis for his opinion includes recent scientific publications which include the 2017 re-analysis of data from the Interphone study, the 2014 French National CERENAT Study, several new publications on Swedish cancer data, and the 2016 results of the National Toxicology Program. Dr. Anthony B. Miller is a physician epidemiologist who specializes in cancer etiology, prevention, and screening. Miller is Professor Emeritus at the Dalla Lana School of Public Health of the University of Toronto and Senior Medical Advisor to the Environmental Health Trust. In response to sceptics who claim, “There is no evidence,” researchers point to published research that has consistently found increased cancer risk in well-designed case control studies that have looked at persons who used cell phones for more than ten years. Commenting on the report, Pasi Ala-Mieto, CEO Cellraid told Nigeria CommunicationsWeek, that the persistent fierce debate between telecommunication industry and health experts can be put to rest by leveraging existing technology to monitor or possibly reduce perceived health effects of radio frequencies. “There seems to be fierce debate between telecommunication industry and epidemiologist/doctors, about the possible health effects of cellphones, why not to use existing technology to reduce the possible health effects of radio frequency exposure? There are 20 years old standards that the telecom operators and regulators are blindly following, even during that time the industry has had one of the speediest technology development in a human history, and cellphone usage has changed from occasional business talks of rich people to commodity 24/7 data  tool for about every citizen on the Earth. “The phone is connected, even it is on your pocket, next to your body, causing unnecessarily high radio frequency exposure to the users body parts. “Most countries have put limits for cellphone and network radiation. Also the phone manufacturers are warning not to use the phone too close to human body. However, there are no country which is truly monitoring and measuring the cellphone radiation levels, from the users perspective. Maybe the monitoring has not been done, as there has not been instruments to do it. He said that Cellraid has made unique innovation to help cellphone users to monitor their cellphone radiation in real-time called Quanta Monitor, free in Playstore for Android phones. “The user can see, if the limits like 2.0w/kg are exceeded. Also, there is another application, Quanta Guard,  to reduce the risk of high cellphone radiation, when the phone is next to the users body. Quanta Monitor and Quanta Guard should be installed in every phone on the planet already before the phone goes to the user’s hands. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .