Good-Friday • Police assure residents of hitch-free Easter celebrations
 • FRSC deploys 1,350 marshals, 14 ambulances in Kaduna Christians all over the world will today mark Good Friday. It is a day set aside to commemorate the crucifixion of Jesus Christ and his death at Calvary. It is observed during the Holy Week. The day is also known as Holy Friday, Great Friday, Black Friday, or Easter Friday. It is an observance that involves people fasting and praying. Many church services are held to remember the hours when Jesus hung on the cross. There are many theories as to why the day that remembers Jesus’ death on the cross is known as Good Friday. One school of thought is that Good Friday stems from the words “God’s Friday”, while others interpret “good” in the sense of “holy”. As Christians across the world prepare to celebrate Good Friday and Easter this weekend the police have assured residents of Lagos and Ogun states of a peaceful Easter celebration. In line with its mandate of securing lives and property, the Zone 2 command comprising the two states said it has put in place operational strategies to ensure a hitch-free celebration. In a statement yesterday, the Zone 2 Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Dolapo Badmos, said the Assistant Inspector General in charge of Zone 2, Adamu Ibrahim mni, has directed the Commissioners of Police in charge of states under the zone to increase police visibility and patrol within their jurisdiction and ensure deployment of plain cloth/surveillance men to recreation and worship centres to forestall any attack or breakdown of law and order within the period. “AIG Adamu Ibrahim also urges members of the public to promptly report any unusual or suspicious occurrence to the police or any available security agents within their reach in order to check and combat activities of hoodlums within the zone during and beyond the Easter period.” Also, the Kaduna Sector Command of the Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) said it had deployed 1,350 marshals, 45 patrol vehicles and 14 ambulances to provide emergency services throughout the Easter celebration. The Sector Commander, Mr. Francis Udoma, told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) that four towing trucks and 12 motorcycles were also deployed, adding that mobile courts would equally be set up at strategic locations to try traffic offenders. “We just had a meeting with the state government officials and transport union leaders from National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW) and Road Transport Employers Association of Nigeria (RTEAN) on ways to ensure safety on our roads.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .