 Managing Director,Old Mutual Nigeria Life Assurance Company,Keith Alford(left); General Chief Eexecutive Officer, Old Mutual West Africa, Zom Chizura, Ag. Managing Director, Old Mutual General Insurance Company, Japhet Duru, Advisory Partner and Chief Economist, PwC Nigeria, Dr. Andrew S Nevin, Chairman, Old Mutual West Africa, Kenneth Igbokwe, at the stakeholder dinner meeting held in Lagos.  The company, which believes that its growth and success lies critically on the appreciation of its services now and in the future by the customers, says focus in 2018 and beyond shall be on customer satisfaction. The  Group Chief Executive Officer, Old Mutual West Africa,  Zom Chizura, speaking at the firms Customer Dinner titled “Future Focus” held in Lagos, said the event was to appreciate her esteemed customers for their patronage and support to the company in 2017. The Evening was crowned with exciting discussion by the chief economist of PwC Nigeria, Andrew Nevin who took a critical look on Nigeria, business environment and 2018 in focus.Chizura said going into next year, customer remains key in the company’s business focus. He said in designing of the company’s products, attention will be paid to capital and risk management. “We will ensure we protect our capital and also protect the customer assets through effective risk management.” Chizura stated that the firm’s product shall be designed to meet the customers need and expectation. “we shall continue to improve on our communication to the customers and potential customers towards ensuring that they understand the benefits we offer. According to him, attention will be paid on post sales service by continuously engaging and listening to the customer, as well as striving to meet their expectation even in the long run. Earlier, Kenneth Igbokwe, chairman, Old Mutual Nigeria spoke about the contribution of customers to the company’s success in 2017. He however urged for more patronage, assuring that the Old Mutual will continue to enhance its service to customers.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .