Lanre Adesanya Sterling Bank Plc has celebrated its Executive Director, Corporate and Institutional Banking, Lanre Adesanya, who recently retired from the bank after a 30 years’ journey for his meritorious service. The retirement dinner was graced by directors, senior executives, shareholders, business associates and the retiring executive director’s family members. The celebratory dinner tagged “Let’s Celebrate our Legend” held at Civic Centre, Lagos. The Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of the bank, Yemi Adeola, said it was a night to celebrate an icon who had worked non-stop for 30 years with the bank at both international and local levels and had traversed the length and breadth of the country in the course of his career. Adeola also enjoined families, shareholders and customers of the bank to celebrate the retiring executive director. The Chairman of the bank, Asue Ighodalo, said the bank would miss Adesanya very much because of his immense wealth of experience, contacts and demeanor, which he used to bring to bear on issues during board meetings. He remarked that when the board met about two weeks ago, nobody could sit on Adesanya’s chair because of the enormous respect other directors had for him, adding that Lanre is truly a great guy who lightens up moods at meeting. “The bank will miss you terribly but we know you are just a phone call away. We are truly grateful to you and we will miss you in the boardroom. Lanre, I thank you for being Lanre, I thank you,” Ighodalo said. Ighodalo also commended his wife, Mrs. Olatundun Adesanya, for supporting her husband to excel in his official duties to the bank, adding, “all our thanks go to you.” In a citation on Adesanya, Mr. Kayode Lawal, ED, Corporate and Investment Banking said, “With faith, discipline and selfless devotion to duty, there is nothing worthwhile that you cannot achieve.” Lawal dwelt on the biography, education and contributions of Adesanya to Sterling Bank, remarking that he is a one of a kind gentleman who is soft-spoken, kind-hearted, and a pillar of hope to many people; his contributions to Sterling were immeasurable. One of the customers of the bank, Mr. Rasheed Sarumi, said his company has a banking relationship with Sterling Bank because of Adesanya, adding that the relationship has been extended to his colleagues in the bank and members of his family. In his response, Adesanya noted that in his 30 years of banking career, he was an executive for 25 years, remarking , “I have seen God in my life. When I’m faced with challenges, my God always shows up. My advice to my colleagues is that there is nothing God cannot do.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .