United Capital Asset Management Ltd holds successful signing ceremony in Lagos for its two new Mutual Funds: The United Capital Nigerian Eurobond Fund and the United Capital Wealth for Women Fund. L-R Ikechukwu Omeruah, Head, Capital Market I, United Capital (Joint Issuing House); Jude Chiemeka, CEO, United Capital Asset Management; Oluwatoyin Sanni, Group CEO, United Capital Plc; Alex Osunde, Managing Director, Sewa Capital (Lead Issuing House); and Bunmi Arowosafe, Head, Custody Services, First City Monument Bank (Custodian) As the number of working women who earn steady income increases, there has also been a steady rise in the demand for financial advice and investible products suited particularly to the needs of women. Conversely, with more women in managerial and entrepreneurial roles in small and large organisations across the nation, the opportunities for investing in female-led companies have never been so plentiful. Recognizing these realities, one of Nigeria’s leading investment banks, United Capital Plc, has launched the United Capital Wealth for Women Fund, which is a Mutual Fund that enables men and women to invest in Nigeria’s capital markets and particularly in publicly quoted companies with a significant number of women in senior management positions and on the board. In doing this, United Capital’s Wealth for Women Fund aims to meet the pressing need to not just support but also invest in businesses that empower its women. In addition to this, the Wealth for Women Fund is designed to enhance the financial security of women; encourage women to imbibe a progressive savings culture; increase women’s participation in Nigeria’s capital markets; and create a sustainable foundation for women’s financial empowerment and development in Nigeria. For women (and men) choosing to invest in this fund, there are a number of benefits that they can enjoy, such as tax-exempt dividend payments, professional expertise from United Capital’s fund managers, and flexibility in terms of an easy entry and exit plan, such that they can invest and withdraw as they please. Additionally, they can enjoy redemptions within five days. Financial service providers in other climes have caught wind of this trend and are offering a fully developed niche of woman-centric financial services that offer special advantages for women. These services empower them by giving them an opportunity to transform their savings into strong financial assets that will see them diversify their income and build lasting wealth. United Capital, with the launch of the Wealth for Women Fund, has demonstrated its interest and commitment to women by pioneering this niche product in the Nigerian capital market.
This article is sponsored content brought to you by United Capital. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .