Dr. Christopher Irene Imumolen, President UNIC Foundation As unemployment rate worsens, UNIC Foundation, a Non-Government Organisation focused on youth development and job creation, has offered to assist the Federal Government to create more jobs. President of UNIC Foundation, Dr. Christopher Imumolen, who made this offer, said the rate of unemployment in the country calls for drastic measures, which will offer immediate and lasting solution to the problem. He said “Government alone cannot solve the problem, considering the number of unemployed as against available jobs. A company that advertised on the Web wanted to employ 300 people, but 2.3 million people applied for a job, where they will be paid N30, 000 a month. “This proves we are in a serious situation, which if not controlled, may totally erode our educational values.” On the way forward, he said, “What we are doing as an NGO is to help Nigerians, by teaching them trades and businesses they can invest in and excel. We also want to give grants. It is important that we assist, as we cannot leave everything to government. So, as a body, we have set up an apprenticeship programme for unemployed Nigerians. After a period of three months, the NGO helps them to continue in their business or start another business.” He explained that the problem with most businesses in the country is that they lack mentorship. “Many businesses failed because business owners do not have a map, a model they want to pattern their businesses after. Before now, the Igbos would learn a trade and were set up by their bosses. Though the trend has reduced, but it was helpful and actually helped to combat unemployment in the Eastern region, and it actually helped so many young persons. “We are adopting the same methodology, by picking people from the street, as well as unemployed graduates, who can come to UNIC Foundation and enroll for free apprenticeship programme that will enable them to thrive.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .