 Similarly, Fidelity Bank Plc said it has resumed international transactions on debit cards, with a raised monthly international spend limit on its Naira Visa Credit and Debit Cards to $1,000.  First Bank of Nigeria Limited in its drive to promote convenience and ease of business for customers has raised the limits on international transactions on Naira Cards to $1,100 monthly across ATMs, PoS, and online channels, with the daily ATM withdrawals raised to $300. Similarly, Fidelity Bank Plc said it has resumed international transactions on debit cards, with a raised monthly international spend limit on its Naira Visa Credit and Debit Cards to $1,000. First Bank in a statement in Lagos, said customers can now enjoy increased access to funds using the FirstBank Naira Master Cards, Naira Prepaid, and Naira Credit Cards for international payments. It however, pegged the monthly limit for points of sale (PoS), online transactions, and customers in UAE, and China to $250.FirstBank and Fidelity Bank said the new international spend limits are coming on the heels of increased availability of foreign exchange in the economy, a fall-out of various economic recovery measures put in place by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN). FirstBank encouraged its customers to continue to leverage FirstBank’s dollar denominated credit and prepaid cards even they also enjoy the raised transaction value on the Naira Cards. “FirstBank remains committed to meeting the banking and financing needs of its customers, providing world class services and expertise whilst ensuring the security of customer funds,” it added.
 
Fidelity Bank on its part also said the resumption of allowing its Naira debit cards for foreign transactions, is in response to customer needs and the improved foreign exchange liquidity in the banking system. The development is coming as an affirmation of positive outcomes of the recent series of reforms in the foreign exchange market.
 
“We are pleased to remove the restrictions on international transactions on Fidelity Visa Naira Credit and Debit Cards.“It was important for us to take advantage of the slight ease in sourcing foreign exchange to do this in order meet with the yearnings of our teeming customers,” the bank’s Chief Executive Officer, Nnamdi Okonkwo, said.
 
The bank in a message to customers, said that international transactions on Fidelity Visa Naira Credit and Debit Cards will now be subject to the following limits- Visa Naira Debit Cards (POS/Web only) equivalent of $1000 only; Visa Naira Credit Cards (ATM/POS/Web) equivalent of $1,000 only.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .