Bajaj Auto,India, the world’s largest manufacturer of 3-wheelers and two wheeler  has introduced to the Nigerian market a new range of products – the Bajaj MaximaC, a mini truck for cargo delivery and mini ambulance trucks all tailor – suit for Nigeria’s rough and bad rural roads. Bajaj Auto,India, the world’s largest manufacturer of 3-wheelers and two wheeler  has introduced to the Nigerian market a new range of products – the Bajaj MaximaC, a mini truck for cargo delivery and mini ambulance trucks all tailor – suit for Nigeria’s rough and bad rural roads. The new range of vehicles are already been assembled in Nigeria with plans at advanced stage for their manufacture next year, according to the Company’s Senior Vice President, Mr. K.S Grihapathy is powered by a four stroke Kubota diesel engine with two cooling system that has an impressive power of 6.2 KW. Grihapathy who spoke at the launch of the new vehicles in Abuja at the weekend explained that the engine is mated to a 5 – speed gear box for optimum load carrying over carrying terrains. He spoke more and offered reasons why the mini cargo trucks were recommended for the Nigerian Market : “ It is easy to drive, compact lightweight and has an extremely strong chassis made of reinforced steel. The vehicle also comes with a dry clutch and car type CV shaft which calls for very  less maintenance. The vehicle has a covered cabin for all weather protection and comfort of the driver. “Over the years, our passengers – 3 wheeler has become a part of the social fabric in Nigeria. Apart from being an effective first and the last mile transportation solution, it also provides employment to millions. With Maxima Cargo, we are now introducing our range of cargo 3-wheelers and ushering in a new solution of cargo transportation that is cleaner, safer, and more comfortable. We feel that this vehicle will be an effective solution in the last mile cargo space in Nigeria which currently is beset by problems like congestion, traffic, and pollution, “  the Bajaj Senior Representative further offered. Also speaking about the new range of vehicles from the Bajaj stable, the Managing Director of Metropolitan Motors, the Sole  Distributor of the products in Nigeria, Mr. ToyinOkewo expressed satisfaction to be partnering with Bajaj, saying that the new products are durable, affordable and rugged. His words : “ Our partnership with Bajaj began last year when Metropolitan Motors was selected out of 43 others firms and we have become the first company in Africa to be so selected for distributorship for these new products . “The products are answer or solution to transportation challenges. We are happy to partner them in creating a new segment of last mile transportation, given it’s affordable cost, multi- purpose nature and the Nigerian road landscape .we believe there’s is a good market for such a vehicle in the last mile cargo sector in Nigeria. We recommend them because of their usefulness for agriculture and job creation and whereby seek assistance of stakeholders like the Central Bank of Nigeria and the Federal Ministry of Agriculture,” Mr. Okeowo pleaded. The Deputy Senate President, Chief Ike Ekweremadu and the Governor of Benue State, Dr. Samuel Ortom who were special guests at occasion described the new range of vehicles as game changer and key driver of economic diversification of the Nigerian economy. According to Ekweremadu : “ This is a game changer for our people . it’s going to add value to our people. We need more if this so that our young men and women can get employment. We are looking forward to a time that these vehicles will not only be assembled here but manufactured in Nigeria because Nigeria is a big market . The partnership couldn’t have come at a better time than now when we have challenges with unemployment.” On his part Governor Ortom said the new cargo trucks will assist in the transportation of food from the rural areas as well as health services. Bajaj Auto  accounts for almost 84% of India’s three-wheeler exports. During the FY 2012-13, it sold approx. 480,000 three-wheelers which was 57% of the total market share in India. Out of these 480,000 three-wheelers, 53% were exported and remaining 47% were sold in India. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .