According to the organizers of the event, the event is meant to stimulate, motivate and excite the creative lobe of participants’ brains using the same kind of thinking and exercise used at various workshops. The African Brand Congress has concluded plans to host this year’s edition of its brand building event and awards as part of measures to enhance engagements that will improve skills, experience and brand management in the country. Themed, ‘shaping the future of African brand’, the event is scheduled to hold in Lagos at Eko Hotel & Suites on May 31, 2017, and will bring together the best brains behind most successful and sought after African brands. According to the organizers of the event, the event is meant to stimulate, motivate and excite the creative lobe of participants’ brains using the same kind of thinking and exercise used at various workshops. “The congress is designed to educate, engage and inspire brand managers and professional in the pursuit of best practice in brand building and value creation. It is an appropriate platform for all brand owner and industry players to discuss how brands in Africa can increase their global competitiveness. “Seeking to enhance professional development skill in the area that are most relevant to the business community today; the congress will provide hand on skill building experience for brands and brand management community. Therefore, the congress expects participants from all over Africa. Participants will find a full year’s worth of through provoking, insightful and tangible ideals and in depth with speakers and peers throughout the event”, the organizers said in a statement. According to the Convener, Desmond Esorougwe, branding has become the buzz word across corporate Africa from corporation to the small businesses in the last few years. “Brands are counted among the biggest asset of any company. A strong brand can prove to be the propeller of a company’s growth in the global arena. Brands are also a source of differentiation for companies and many companies especially those dealing with consumer products, are known more by their brands than their corporate identities. “The focus of this two day African brand congress in Nigeria will be to support you in the journey of excellence in brand building plus to be discussed and influence the issue of creating African’ global brands. This provides the ideal opportunity for interaction among leading companies keynote interactive discussion, quality up to day case studies from leading organizations provides a close look at the improvement that the biggest companies in the market are currently implementing worldwide”, he added. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .