 Chidi Okoroafor  David had a thanksgiving lifestyle and was grateful to God for everything He did for him. The Bible told us in Psalms 119:164, that David praised God seven times a day for His righteous judgments. Because of David thanksgiving lifestyle, God said to him, “I will beat down his foes before his face, And plague those who hate him.” Whenever thanksgiving rises up to God, He is stirred into action to perform a miracle. Be a thanksgiver because thanksgiving releases enormous power of God to do wonders in your life. Gratitude is a spiritual force that empowers you to scale to higher heights. When you are a grateful, thankful Christian, powerful supernatural forces from heaven are unleashed that cause things to work for you the way they should. Every time you give genuine thanksgiving fresh oil for fresh impact comes on you. You never run dry with constant thanksgiving (Psalms 89:20-24). When you thank God, you glorifieth His Name, Psalm 50:23. Thanksgiving has the power to bring encouragement to the testifier and helps to build more confidence in God (Lamentations 3:22-23). David was encouraged, when he was testifying to Saul about how he fought the lion and the bear. He said Goliath would not be a problem. Thanksgiving brings edification to the hearers. It builds up the faith of others. Romans 10:7 says, faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the word of God. God is not a respecter of persons. What God did for someone, He can do for others. Thanksgiving qualifies you for another act of favour from God. Testimony commits God to do more (Proverbs 3:9-10). It propels the testifier to a great height (Psalms 18:1-3). Strength and courage is released, when you thank God. Thanksgiving brings incredible multiplication. It is one thing to have addition; it is a greater thing to have multiplication (John 6:5-13). The five loaves of bread and two fishes multiplied in the hands of Jesus after He gave thanks to God. Five thousand people were fed and there were about 12, 000 baskets left over (John 6:11&13). Nothing is little in the hands of a thanksgiver, because God will cause an increase. Thanksgiving turns healing to wholeness. In Luke 17:11-19, 10 lepers cried out to Jesus asking for mercy and He healed them, but only one out of them returned to thank Him. Jesus said to him in v.19, Arise, go thy way: thy faith hath made thee whole. Wholeness is complete health. As you praise and thank God, may you experience His wholeness in Jesus name. Thanksgiving brings incredible restoration. In John 11:41, Jesus gave thanks and Lazarus rose from the dead. As you give thanks, every opportunity that was dead in your life will be restored in Jesus name. Thanksgiving brings total deliverance from all your troubles. Psalms 50:14-15, “Offer unto God thanksgiving; and pay thy vows unto the most High. And call upon me in the day of trouble: I will deliver thee, and thou shalt glorify me.” Thanksgiving provokes the blessings of God upon your life. In 2 Chronicles 1:6-15, Solomon offered unto God a thousand burnt offering and went to bed. He got divine visitation; he got a blank cheque from God; he got divine overflow – more than he asked for and he got divine overwhelming prosperity – silver became like stones. Look at verse 11 God told Solomon, you did not ask for riches, wealth, honour and long life. God added all these blessings as extra to Solomon. Thanksgiving brings down the glory of God. In 2 Chronicles 5:13-14, when high praises and thanksgiving was rendered to God, His glory filled His house and the priests could not stand. Sickness, disease, sorrow and demons cannot stand, as you give God thanks in Jesus Name.
Thanksgiving precedes a new era, a new beginning. If you want a new era of miracles, signs and wonders, then begin with thanksgiving (Luke 22:19-20). Today’s Nugget: Thanksgiving precedes a new era.
Prayer:  Father, I pray as I give you thanks continually, may wonders never cease to happen in my life in Jesus Name, Amen.
Prayer line: Send text only to 09078154261.
E-mail: evangelgospel@yahoo.com
Dr. Chidi Okoroafor, General Superintendent
Assemblies of God Nigeria To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .