INTELS Nigeria Limited The 450,000 square metres of land area of the Eko Energy Estate, being developed by INTELS Nigeria Limited, would be ready next year. This was disclosed during the official visit of President of Italy’s Chamber of Deputies (equivalent of Nigeria’s House of Representatives), Mrs Laura Boldrini, to the multi-billion naira estate located within the Eko Atlantic City, Lagos. The Eko Energy Estate is projected to create a green and family-friendly neighbourhood, while providing an enabling environment for foreign investors to work and live more conveniently in Lagos with the Eko Atlantic Business District, an international school, hospital, shopping malls and a Marina at close proximity. The Italian top parliamentarian commended INTELS Nigeria and the developers of the Eko Atlantic City for initiating the ambitious project, which she said will contribute to the diversification of Nigeria’s economy. “This country is so rich in land and agriculture. So this is the time to put a different perspective in place. I am happy there is a lot of interest from outside investors because this country has to be supported because it has a big potential,” she said. Boldrini and her team were received by INTELS Director/Chief Executive Officer of Prime Properties and Investment, Silvano Bellinato; the General Manager, Commercial, INTELS Nigeria, Massimiliano Landolfi, and the Managing Director of South Energyx Limited, David Frame. While briefing the delegation, Landolfi said the Eko Energy Estate is spread across 450,000 square metres of land area, taking full advantage of the location at the Lagos channel and the main canal entrance at the Eko Atlantic City. According to him, the Eko Energy Estate Phase I, which consists of three towers of Ground plus 19 floors with a flexibility of one to four bedroom apartments tailor-made to clients’ requirements, will be completed by mid-2018. He said: “Facilities like swimming pool and pool bar, tennis court, gym and playground are included. Some of the services rendered will be 24/7power supply, water and sewage treatment, security, ICT and 25 years track record of estate management”. Boldrini was accompanied on the visit by the Ambassador of Italy to Nigeria, Fulvio Rustico, Consul-General of the Italian Embassy in Lagos, Dr. Andrea Pompermaier, and other top Italian Government officials. INTELS Nigeria Limited has severally demonstrated its unflinching commitment to the development of Nigeria’s economy and the oil and gas industry. The company, which developed the Onne Free Trade Zone in Rivers State, is also a terminal operator at Warri, Calabar and Lagos ports. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .