 DG of SON, Osita Anthony Aboloma  The Director-General, SON, Osita Aboloma, made the call at a stakeholders’ meeting with the legends of Nollywood industry, themed, “Empowering the Nigerian film industry – Issues and prospects,” in Lagos. Aboloma, who was represented by the Head, Customer Feedback and Collaboration Unit, SON, Mrs. Mosunmola Samuel, said adherence to quality products and services would ensure inclusive growth. According to Aboloma, everything in the world is about standards, maintaining that the agency would continue to work tirelessly in educating Nigerians so as to be abreast with global trend. He noted that the agency was throwing its full weight behind the nation’s film industry to ensure that whatever instruments used conformed to the Nigerian Industrial Standard (NIS). “We are poised to use every opportunity to educate Nigerians on quality issues,’’ he said.Aboloma added that consumer protection could only be achieved through standards, stating that the film industry needed to combat faking and counterfeiting through standards. “We are here to throw our support to the film industry to support their legends. We are also here to educate them and the physically challenged that are legends. They have contributed one way or the other to the success story of Nigeria. “We want to assure them that when they buy made-in-Nigeria certified products, they are buying safety. We want to also educate them on how to identify certified and quality products. If you look at the film industry today, all the products they use are brought into the country and we have a SONCAP scheme that ensures that these products conform to standards. “We want to educate them to look beyond the aesthetic beauty and watch out for the specifications. We are here to support them that through quality the film industry will remain sustainable,” he declared. Emphasising the need to adhere to standards, Aboloma said: “We have standards for everything. Standard is a document that summarises the quality requirements for a product, service, system or process. “The cameras that the film industry is using must conform to the minimum requirements of the standards. This is why we have a SONCAP initiative that tests all imported products to ensure they conform to standards.” Also speaking at the event, the convener, Paul Obazele, commended the agency for its fight against fake and substandard goods in the country.
“SON has helped the film industry by ensuring that only instruments that meet global best standards are used in film production. “We are highly grateful for the support and encouragement of the SON. The agency has continued to fight relentlessly to safeguard every sector of the economy against the influx of fake and substandard goods in the country. This is the way to protect the local industries from unfair competition,” he said.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .