Emirates Airlines Emirates airline has open flight operations to China, with multiple destinations beyond Beijing and Guangzhou. The airline, at a media parley in Lagos, said the route and Asia as a whole has become very strategic for African travellers and global aviation for Emirates to ignore. Emirates’ Regional Manager, West Africa, Afzal Parambil, said China that used to be solely business destination has now added tourism, to become second most patronised destination for African travellers. Parambil said: “China is very popular for visitors from across the world, including Nigeria, not just for leisure travellers, but also for business and trade. Our network in Asia including China is extensive. We fly to over 20 destinations in 13 countries, some of which include Beijing, Shanghai, Guangzhou, Yinchuan, Zhengzhou, Seoul, Tokyo, Taipei, Kuala Lumpur, Singapore, Hong Kong, and many others.” He added that many of the cities are major business and trade hubs and are also served by multiple Emirates’ flights a day, ensuring its customers have more choice and convenience when planning their travel. “Many of our Asian destinations are served by Emirates’ iconic A380 double deck aircraft, which is very popular amongst our customers. Destinations to which we fly the A380 include again Beijing, Shanghai, Guangzhou, Taipei and Hong Kong, as well as Bangkok, Singapore, Seoul and Kuala Lumpur. “As Emirates we’re able to offer Nigerians real global connectivity with just one convenient stop at our modern hub Dubai. Part of my role is to ensure that Emirates is the airline of choice for Nigerian travellers and that we offer the best possible experience in the air and on the ground,” he said. Travellers stand to enjoy unique offers on the Asian network, especially on China route, offering Nigerians real global connectivity with just one convenient stop at our modern hub Dubai. Parambil said: “We offer over 2,400 channels on board our aircraft to all our destinations and that includes movies, live news channels, sports and for kids we have enough entertainment to keep them busy so when you travel with the family you don’t need to worry about your kids. In fact, for the kids on the flight, you will have to pull them out when they are playing a game or watching a cartoon. “Our baggage policy is also very attractive. We offer two pieces of luggage now. In the past, we used to give 30kg for Economy Class, 40kg for Business Class and 50kg for First Class. So, we relaunched it having looked at the requirement of the market. “We relaunched it by two pieces so economy passengers can carry two baggage 23kg each making 46kg; while Business Class also has two pieces of 32kg each making it 64kg and this has helped travellers to Guangzhou because they don’t travel and come back empty-handed.” The airline operates with the iconic A380 to most of its route in Asia, adding that it operates to 20 destinations and 13 countries in the continent. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .