(FILES) This file photo taken on April 10, 2017 shows China’s President Xi Jinping reviewing paramilitary guards with Myanmar’s President Htin Kyaw at a welcome ceremony at the Great Hall of People in Beijing.<br />Chinese leader Xi Jinping is expected to tighten his grip on power at a Communist Party conclave in mid October, 2017, cementing his stature as the country’s most dominant ruler in decades. / AFP PHOTO / FRED DUFOUR / TO GO WITH: China-congress-politics, Laurent THOMET The 19th National Congress of the Communist Party of China (CPC) began yesterday October 18, 2017. A total of 2,287 delegates were selected from across China to attend the congress. A new CPC Central Committee and a new Central Commission for Discipline Inspection will be elected at the congress. The 19th CPC National Congress will review the party’s work since 2012 and draw out guidelines and policies to guide the nation’s development over the coming years.This key event will definitely become an epoch-making milestone for China’s peaceful development. In the past five years, the CPC has united and led people of all ethnic groups to carry on and advance socialism with Chinese characteristics and made a series of major strategic moves, introduced a series of important polices and promoted a series of significant projects. China’s GDP increased dramatically from 8.14 trillion U.S. dollars in 2012 to 11.2 trillion U.S. dollars in 2016, maintains a medium-high average growth rate of 7.2% annually during this period and continues to be the main drive of the world’s economic recovery and contributed to more than 30% of global growth. Through deepening supply-side structural reform, implementing of the strategy of innovation-drive development, coordinating development in both rural and urban areas as well as other economic policy, China’s economy has enter a new normal of development. China also made remarkable achievements in ecological field. Over the past five years, the forest reserve increased by 3.42 million hectare, desertified land has decreased 19.8 million square kilometers. By now, a legal system pivoting on environmental protection and energy conservation has been formed which will help to build a resource-conserving and environment-friendly society. It is common knowledge China has lifted more people out of poverty than any other country. Since the beginning of reform and opening-up, China has lifted more than 700 million people out of poverty which accounted for over 70% of the global population living in poverty. In the past five years alone, China has lifted at least 65 million people out of poverty. China plans to lift the remaining 40 million people out of poverty by 2020. China devoted to get more actively involved in international affairs, play its due role of a major responsible country, and work jointly with other countries to meet global challenges. From the Belt and Road Initiative to the goal of building and international community of shared future, China has provided a new blueprint for global development. The 19th CPC National Congress is a very important meeting, to be held at a critical stage when China is striving to achieve an all-around moderately prosperous society, and at a critical time for the development of socialism with Chinese characteristics. The 19th CPC National Congress will thoroughly examine the current international and domestic situation, and take into account the new requirements for the development of the Party and the country as well as new expectations from the people. Efforts will be made to continue to build a better Party with the purpose to achieve the final victory of building a moderately prosperous society in an all-round way and to create new prospect for socialism with Chinese characteristic. With the promotion and implementation of the spirit of the 19th CPC National Congress, CPC and Chinese people will make joint efforts to create an even brighter future for the people, the nation and the world. *Xiao liang is Consul General of the People’s Republic of China in Lagos To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .